# worldsPlanetGen

* classes.php - this holds the actual functions that make the thing work
* singleStarSystem.php - generate the contents of a star system that has only 1 primary star.  this includes generation of moons, generation of a sample alien artifact if artifacts are present on a given planet or moon, biospheres, and species (but not full stats for them).  biosphere and species generation is still a work in progress
* artifact.php - generates an alien artifact
* species.php - generates a species based on the supplied parameters (if any) [currently placeholder file]
* data folder - holds the CSVs that are used for data import

## DOCUMENTATION OF FUNCTIONS IN CLASSES.PHP (WORK IN PROGRESS)
* genStar (takes no parameters) - generates and returns a star formatted as array (string $starType, string $starSize).
* numPlanets ($starType, $starSize, $numStars=1) - determines the number of planets based on the provided parameters and returns it as an integer.  for multi-star systems where the planets orbit a pair (or more) of stars, use the star highest on the appropriate scale for each of $starType (Harvard System extended for additional star types) and $starSize (Yerkes spectral classification system, currently no support for spectral pecularity codes, with white dwarfs flagged as "VII" instead of the more appropriate "D" and subdwarfs flagged as "VI" instead of the more appropriate "sd" (these are on the to-do list)).
* genPlanetZones ($starType, $numPlanets) - generates zone locations for a number of planets ($numPlanets) based on $starType.  returns the data as an array formatted like $array[planetNumber] = (1, 2, or 3).  1 = hot zone, 2 = habitable zone, 3 = cold zone.
* genPlanetType ($zone) - generates the type of planetary body given the specified zone.  returns an integer.  the key for this integer is as follows: 1 = gas giant, 2 = terrestrial, 3 = asteroid belt, 4 = icy
* genRoids(int $modifier) - generates an asteroid belt based on the parameters of the $modifier.  for reference, $modifier should be -4 if there are 3 or more gas giants in the system, or 2 if there are one or fewer gas giants.  returns the data as a string, properly formatted for output.  also generates major asteroids in that belt (if any) and adds them to the output as well.
* genPlanetSize($zone, $type, $moon = FALSE, $planetSize = 1) - generates the planet size based on the input parameters ($moon = TRUE is used to indicate you are generating a moon, in which case $planetSize also needs to be set to the size code for the planetary body it orbits).  returns an array formatted as array (int sizeCode, string fluffText).  fluffText includes diameter of the planet or moon in kilometers.  sizeCode is keyed as follows: 1 = diminutive, 2 = fine, 3 = tiny, 4 = small, 5 = medium, 6 = large, 7 = huge, 8 = small gas giant, 9 = medium gas giant, 10 = huge gas giant, 11 = gargantuan gas giant, 12 = y-class brown dwarf
* genSystemFeatures (takes no parameters) - generates and returns an array of system features, if any.  possible features at this writing include planetary debris disks (such as protoplanetary disks), flare stars,  Oort clouds, status as a raider haven, flux space gateways, and if the system is flux-space capable for ships that cannot go against a gradient.
* genGravity ($size, $type, $moon = FALSE, $planetGrav = FALSE) - generates the gravity of a body based on the input variables.  for moon generation, set $moon = TRUE and $planetGrav equal to the planetary gravity code of the parent body to ensure that a moon does not end up with a higher gravity than its parent body. returns an array formatted as array = (int gravityCode, string fluffText).
* genAtmoDense ($gravity, $zone, $moon = FALSE) - generates the atmospheric density of the body.  $moon should be set to true for moons.  returns an array formatted as array = (int atmoDensityCode, string fluffText)
* genAtmoComp ($zone, $moon = FALSE) - generates the atmospheric compsition of the body.  $moon should be set to true for moons.  returns an array formatted as array = (int atmoCompositionCode, string fluffText)
* genPlanetGeo ($gravity, $atmosphere) - generates the geology of the body based on the parameters.  returns an array formatted as array = (int geologyCode, string fluffText)
* genPlanetVolcanism ($gravity, $geology, $moon = FALSE) - generates the volcanism of the body based on the parameter ($moon = TRUE for moon generation).  returns an array formatted as array = (int volcanismCode, string fluffText)
* genPlanetHydrosphere ($atmosphere, $zone, $geology, $volcanism, $moon = FALSE) - generates the hydrosphere of the body based on the parameter ($moon = TRUE for moon generation).  returns an array formatted as array = (int volcanismCode, string fluffText, int hydroCoveragePercentage)
* genPlanetClimate ($atmosphere, $starType, $starSize, $planetVolcanism, $planetHydrosphere, $size) - generates the climate of the planet based on the provided parameters.  only use this for habitable zone planets.  returns a string formatted as '$tempF F Average Equatorial Temperature ($tempC C).  Variability: $variabilityF F ($variability C)".  nothing works off the actual temperature in the generation so far, so no need to return int values.
* genPlanetBiosphere ($atmopshere, $hydrosphere, $zone, $atmosphericComposition, $volcanism) - generates the biosphere complexity and density based on the provided parameters.  returns an array formatted as array = (int densityCode, int complexityCode, string densityFluff, string complexityFluff)
* genPlanetPopulation ($biosphereDensity, $biosphereComplexity, $atmosphere, $zone, $hydrosphere, $volcanism) - generates the population of a native intelligence of the planet based on the provided parameters.  eventually this will be expanded out to support non-native populations such as colonies.  returns an array formatted as array = (int populationCode, string fluffText)
* genPlanetTechnology ($population, $gravity, $atmosphereComposition, $atmosphereDensity, $volcanism, $climate, $biosphere) - generates the tech level of the planet based on the provided parameters.  returns an array formatted as array = (int techCode, string fluffText).
* genQuirk ($type, $force = FALSE) - generates a quirks for a specified kind of life $type (sentient, basic, simple, complex).  setting $force to TRUE forces quirk generation rather than leaving the presence of any quirk at all up to chance.  returns formatted text ready for display.
* genClassification ($type) - generates the classification(s) (lethal, dangerous, commonplace, interesting, useful, breakthrough, intelligent) for a specified kind of life $type (sentient, basic, simple, complex).  returns formatted text ready for display.
* loadTSV ($file) - I got fed up with having to type/copy so much to load a tab-separated value file into an array, so i built a function to do it instead.  returns an array.
* generateArtifact ($template = FALSE, $technology = FALSE) - generates an alien artifact.  template (gear, weapon, armor) and technology (crystal, chemical, electronic, life, mechanical, nanotechnology, organic) can be specified via the parameters if desired.  returns formatted text ready for display.
* function increaseDamageDice(string $startingDice, $steps) - increases the damage dice specified by a number of steps following current pathfinder rules.  quite possible the nerdiest thing in this file.  returns a string.  consider this experimental considering how self-referential the code is.
